Lilliana Robinson: No, I am curious, as you guys left and digested for the rest of the day, and let all the content marinate. Does anybody have any sort of like thoughts or ideas or insights that that you had throughout the day, or questions you might have, or just general thoughts from yesterday. Yeah, George, kick us off.
George Reed - CEO and Founder: Oh, yeah, I was just gonna we'd run out of time on the last call. But I was just gonna add to what you were saying, Liliana with the
George Reed - CEO and Founder: importance of
George Reed - CEO and Founder: taking time to make sure you really
George Reed - CEO and Founder: design your initial interview questions properly, because that's something like with what I do with market research, with surveys, I find, is like. My opinion on this is that
George Reed - CEO and Founder: many billions of dollars every year wasted on surveys and market research, because people don't take the time to
George Reed - CEO and Founder: so try and mitigate the input bias. Because I have, you know, in programming, I have, like the garbage in garbage out idea. It kind of applies to this as well. So I just yeah.
George Reed - CEO and Founder: we're all familiar with garbage and garbage out. And we've got that exactly in this
George Reed - CEO and Founder: jobs to be done. Interview process, too. I'd I'd say.
Lilliana Robinson: Exactly, George, and we didn't really get to it yesterday, Neil, but we should talk about surveys
Lilliana Robinson: because George just hinted at it.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah, for for us, George, I think what you do is that
Neal Sáles-Griffin: another level of importance and sophistication? And where we're starting everyone at.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you know. Obviously, we're doing the qualitative interview techniques to get the initial hints as to where to start and how to redirect their progress. Now.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I think down the road is going to be.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: maybe some, some relevance towards bringing in more of your expertise and perspective on how they can gather more data at scale. But for us, we don't even prepare questions for the interviews that we're going to have you all conduct like we don't even premeditate them. For the most part we'll we'll explain why during this session and tomorrow, and give you more context on how to figure it out. But ours is more like customer discovery. Jazz
Neal Sáles-Griffin: so
Neal Sáles-Griffin: it's it's fun that way.
George Reed - CEO and Founder: I'm excited.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: It's kind of like you're just getting to know someone and having a conversation with them. And you have a few like ideas and and directions that you want to go, but nothing particularly scripted or structured, which is usually
Neal Sáles-Griffin: in contrast with what a lot of founders tend to do at this stage to prepare for their. You know, customer interviews. They think that they have a set of questions that they need to ask everyone.
Lilliana Robinson: Dominique, but those were great comments, George, I completely agree. Thank you for offering
Lilliana Robinson: Dominique.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: Hey, guys? So we were just reflecting. Today, I think we both got a couple of points. It was pretty much a topic. We kept coming back to you, but just reflecting on our own journey and sharing it with with the cohort. I know Liliana and and Neil and team. You know this well, but
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: I think for us, when we 1st started Agent Luna, we did a lot of interviews, albeit not properly. Now we're learning the framework from you guys. But we we had this hypothesis that we came to. That was kind of the research from everyone that people were telling us, hey? I don't know where to start with my social media. So we thought we had everything figured out. We built that prototype that basically gave them
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: a strategy on how to do that, and we were super excited. And so we went back to all those same people, and we were like ta-da. Now, now you know where to start. And then they just looked at us with funny faces. Really right? The majority of them like that's cool. But
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: I kind of just want it done. And we were like, huh! You know, you just want to do it mean? And I think that kind of led us to dig a bit deeper. But we're we're literally just scratching the surface. So I think, as you guys know.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: And now the rest of the cohort, we're just super excited to really dive into this process and really figure out what I just want. It done means, so yeah, we were just
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: thinking about that. But I think, will you had. Yeah, I'll just quickly add one other thought. So. The other key takeaway from yesterday was the analysis of the patterns, and I think Liliana and Neil you mentioned there's typically 12 to 15 or so that are going to be reoccurring. So that was sort of a penny drop moment that
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: we kind of need to go back and start to figure out what customers we could group together, that where do they fit? Exactly because it's I think we're going to get a lot of insights out of that. And really just going a level deeper. Yeah.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And just to clarify one thing
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you mentioned 12 to 15. That's how many interviews we recommend you doing to get
Neal Sáles-Griffin: to and uncover, probably 2 or 3.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: Later on.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah, it's usually like 2 or 3. Sometimes it could be a few more.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: sometimes it could be just one or 2,
Neal Sáles-Griffin: almost always. It's at least 2. And typically around 3 jobs that people are hiring your your product to do.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: Yeah, yeah. Thanks. Neil, yeah. Yeah.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: Excited for today's session. Yeah. Thanks. Guys.
Lilliana Robinson: Thank you, sure, else.
Çoruh | CogniScope: Yeah, we also talked about like what we do and how we can utilize this kind of thing. And we
Çoruh | CogniScope: we've like remembered.
Çoruh | CogniScope: would you remember the essay about
Çoruh | CogniScope: how? It's an adonos theory. It's they he calls it choices and illusion. Because when you give someone choices, you just limit people to answer from those choices. But
Çoruh | CogniScope: to make an more explanatory like explores rev explanatory understanding about how people are using stuff, how they
Çoruh | CogniScope: how they understand the different
Çoruh | CogniScope: aspects of different things. You have to get a bit more like explanatory.
Çoruh | CogniScope: open-ended questions that
Çoruh | CogniScope: makes you go up and up, and more deeper.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: We were just nodding along to that. I don't know if any because I think it reminded us of one at this one interview in particular to remember with
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: whispered it, but like it's funny when you, when you you can kind of accidentally lead people into answering in a certain way. So I think, yeah, you just resonated with us a lot then. And that's something definitely. We we want to learn like how to better ask the questions, because you can almost pigeonhole and not really find out
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: what the true problem is.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah, a few things we say is, don't lead the witness. And then also
Neal Sáles-Griffin: a lot of the times. Unfortunately, as
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you know, passionate founders and researchers. Now
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you want the answer that you're seeking.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: Yeah.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Right. So you tend to ask questions and get excited, and direct your energy in the conversation with them around. The thing that gets you excited and validates how you're already feeling about what it is you're trying to learn or do so that that is a challenge inevitably in this process, and for those of you who are more professional researchers in the room. You probably already know this and understand the importance of mitigating that bias. But we'll we'll do our best to help you all with that, too.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: Yeah, that's helpful, especially as a marketeer. You want to pull out the answer. So I definitely, I need help with that definitely.
Lilliana Robinson: Where.
Uğur Koç: Yeah, I I was just thinking, like all by myself, after we've, you know, discussed the session yesterday as a team. How like I I really wanna know how possible is it to perform the jobs to be done? Interview
Uğur Koç: to a group of people? Because, you know, we we talked about how in B, twob, these decisions, these buying decisions are being made by multiples of people, or sometimes simultaneously brought by a team, that is, you know, responsible from one thing, and the person who's the
Uğur Koç: user of the product that let's say that we're selling is also getting a say. And then the final consolidator, which is the, you know, economic decision makers listening to everyone and saying like, Okay, this is it. So? Like, I was thinking how these yeah, good.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, no, you're asking all the right questions, or there are. There are like a set of questions that everybody has at the beginning, and this is always one of them. So your users are separate from your customers. I'll go over this in the business blueprint next week, and I have a lot of b 2 b advice for you guys in that workshop, but one
Lilliana Robinson: to answer your 1st question. You can't do a jobs to be done. Interview with a group of people.
Lilliana Robinson: It needs to be with one person, one interviewee
Lilliana Robinson: and you also will do a separate set of jobs to be done interviews for your users versus your like, the person that has the buying power.
Lilliana Robinson: and we'll help you identify which stakeholder is the one person that you would actually want to interview for that buying power. And so you should pick which one to start with while we're doing this all together, and you need to go back and do a second round of jobs to be done interviews with the users. So say you start with the customers. You need to go back and do the separate set, so they should not combine. They should be completely separate, because the 2 of them will have 2 separate jobs to do. But you do need to understand both sides.
Lilliana Robinson: I'll go through exercises to kind of identify both of those in the business blueprint next week.
Lilliana Robinson: Does that make sense
Lilliana Robinson: cool.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah. So all the B Twob people out there, we're definitely going to want to identify a single person. For example, I'll give this example, next week. But we had a company that was selling into like 50 to 100 employees software companies, and we helped them identify that the person that was the decision maker. Their true customer were chief innovation officers. They had previously been selling to chief technology officers. And I'll tell you a lot more about that, because it's 1 of my main examples in my workshop next Wednesday. But that's like an example.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: One other thing you all should know is our team, went on an off site over the past day. So we're down in Half Moon Bay wrapping up. So we're all kind of together circling around a coffee shop out here in the foggy what? What is this? Is this
Neal Sáles-Griffin: this considered South Bay. Is that right, Agadina like, where do? Where are we right now?
akadinayadegar: I don't think I would call it South Bay. I don't really know what I'm.
Monica Roy (Seascape Clinical): Love it.
akadinayadegar: So we're coming down the coast a little.
Dave Scott: Yeah, you guys are at Half Moon Bay. So you guys are close to me. It's really just Peninsula.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah.
akadinayadegar: So, yeah.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah, teach me the lingo folks. I'm learning getting familiar.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: No, but it was cool because we were talking about how much fun yesterday was, and what made it the most interesting wasn't like
Neal Sáles-Griffin: us speaking to you all, going through slides with more of the conversation that that came from it, and how you all started to help each other, and already have ideas for what made it relevant for your business. So, even though I do have more slides to run you through now to talk through. It's really just a summary of some ideas and and principles that I want to use to stoke discussion and questions so to the extent that it activates your curiosity, and you want to either clarify something or call it out
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and make it relevant to your business or your contacts. That's what makes it interesting to us. Because I've I've given this talk hundreds of times.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So humor me. And and with your engagement when you're willing.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Cool.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, we welcome your questions and comments. And I will also set the intention for today. We're also going to teach you guys how to interview and how to find who to interview. So if you saw on your checklist in base camp your very 1st to do list, there's an assignment which is to write your screening criteria, which is who you're going to interview. It should be a very narrow set of
Lilliana Robinson: like screening criteria. I don't know another way to say it. And that's how you're going to decide. So today, we're going to go over that. And I want to make sure that when we leave today, each and every single one of you deeply understands what you need to do, because that's going to be due at the end of next week.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Okay. So my question slide is, Shawn. Is that what everyone sees? Okay, good.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So this is where we left off yesterday.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I had a few more things to wrap up yesterday's stuff, which is to talk a little bit about the approach to the interview. So think of yourself like you're either a detective or a journalist.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and you're trying to uncover or or like kind of paint, the picture of of what happened, either the scene of the crime or or the getting to the story. You're connecting the dots, and you're trying to deduce like you know what what even happened.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And then also, we were talking about the example with
Neal Sáles-Griffin: the candy bar snickers and Mars Milky Way before.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So
Neal Sáles-Griffin: the level of context, like the the goal here for you all, and how you describe
Neal Sáles-Griffin: your Icp or persona, or your customer, you know profile or jobs to be done. Whatever version of that language you want to apply to your your business.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Here's what I mean by refining a situation by adding context.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I'm hungry.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: so
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I want something to eat.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Therefore I grab a stickers.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That's not very contextualized, right? Like, when I want something to eat. There's a lot of things I can do to address that.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So is there any more detail that you would add
Neal Sáles-Griffin: for this situation to add context to it.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: based on what we talked about yesterday.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: I mean this.
Uğur Koç: Seems like a.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Apple.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: How speaking? How about that? You're you know, on on the move. You don't have you need something.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But I'm in a rush.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah, anyway.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: Yeah.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Okay, good. That's good.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Any more
Neal Sáles-Griffin: detail. Anything else we can add to this, because now I'm in a rush and I want something to eat. Therefore I grab a snickers, or are there a lot of other things I can grab.
George Reed - CEO and Founder: You really.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: You don't want a big, a big meal. You want something to kind of tie you over or bridge you, but it's fulfilling.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: Sad, as.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Okay.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: maybe I'm really hungry. I'm like, desperate. I want something. Now.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I need something quick and easy, but also satiating.
Uğur Koç: Maybe I don't have that much money, or you know I I only have a change, and I want something that I can buy with my change.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah, I don't have much money. That's not that fun. I I don't like customers that don't have that much money. I want them to have a little bit more money, but I want them to spend it on.
Uğur Koç: Okay.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I understand. I understand where you're coming from that that makes sense. Well, I'll give you the last 1. 0, go ahead! Sorry.
Morgan Stanton: Like 3.
Talitha Abraham: Maybe a quick burst of energy.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Angry. Yeah.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I like where you're going with it. Let's see. Let's see what I came up with the last. So I'm in a rush. I'm starving. I need something I can eat with one hand while I'm on the go, and I'm not showing. The next time I'll be able to use.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Alright like this is the mission critical situation.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Now, the snickers, as one of the products to hire, is very much well defined and narrowed down.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: given. What we spoke about. What I'll say to you is that most of you most founders, quite frankly in general.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: are somewhere between
Neal Sáles-Griffin: saying, I want something to eat, or I'm in a rush and want something to eat when they describe where their customer is at.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and why their customer would be the right fit for them.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So it's not a particularly well defined and and contextualized criteria for who you should talk to, let alone who you should be selling to.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and who needs you more than anyone else.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So my goal with you all is to you to get you to a point where, when you're talking
Neal Sáles-Griffin: to your team when you are strategizing and building product, when you're dealing with your potential investors.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Any stakeholder that's important for your business's progress in the coming months through techstars and beyond.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I want you be able. I want you to be able to, very
Neal Sáles-Griffin: granularly and precisely to find the context that your user is struggling in that makes them the perfect fit
Neal Sáles-Griffin: for your product or service to support them.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I'll I'll let off on the candy bars now. But hopefully this brings the point home of what the goal is
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and what I want to strive towards for your the level of understanding you should have about what they're going through and why they're perfect for you right now.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So we have this thing called the job Story, which we'll talk more about I think tomorrow. But I wanted to at least hint at it and explain that this notion of a job story rather than a user story or persona, that I typically hear people say, there's a lot of times where we're adding in our assumptions, our subjectivity, and this kind of categorization and clustering of people before truly understanding them
Neal Sáles-Griffin: with our own implementation or solution in mind that leaves out some of the important causal components, the context and the underlying motivations of the people who actually are in need of your help.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So like the notions of like the demographic information and details.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: that's what I see a lot of people talk about when I ask them who their customer is. They go. Oh, well, they're working professionals between 20 and 35, or, you know, like they'll they'll categorize them by gender or by. You know, some other, you know, seemingly irrelevant factor relative to
Neal Sáles-Griffin: the actual contextual need.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So 30 seconds to buy need something that's going to save off 100 for 30 min is far more relevant to speak on than my age, sex, race, weekend habits, you know anything like that.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That isn't to say that those aren't important things to be mindful of over time.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: It's just that it's more about the context and less about the demographics. So I'm not throwing it out the window. But I am saying that people tend to over index for those broader categories before they understand the more situational context of their consumers.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Liliana.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, I would even say people over rely on personas. I've been waiting for this slide, because even in these discussions you can go back in here on the recordings. Several of you have brought up personas. So I just want to call everyone's attention to this slide. This is huge here, so I don't know everyone's background, but a lot of people have probably done case studies or studies some form of
Lilliana Robinson: entrepreneurship or business at some point or the other, and they do teach you personas in those classes, and it's just not as efficable as
Lilliana Robinson: the situation itself. So, like, Neil is saying, it's not like we throw it out completely. But for the time being, while we're doing this customer discovery, we actually won't talk about personas at all. So when you guys are making your screening criteria, I will probably make some of you rewrite it because there will be a lot of persona in there. It will be people who live in this very specific like.
Lilliana Robinson: they live in an urban area. They live in a metropolitan area. They're 20 to 30. They're women, whatever it is that is not going to be what we're talking about here. So I kind of want to challenge you to rewire your brain a bit and see that there is a
Lilliana Robinson: completely agnostic view that has nothing to do with who a person is, and only about the situation or struggle they're going through. So this is going to be like a mental shift for a lot of people so wanted to call this out.
Uğur Koç: Can I ask something here? Really quick.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Please let's do it.
Uğur Koç: Yeah, like, when I hear you say that, liana, the the question comes to my mind, what if I don't know the situations or the types of situations that the person that I'm trying to get to is because of, you know, maybe I haven't worked in that area yet, or I don't know what specific situation that that person finds themselves in, or the business finds themselves in like. Do we like make up for that by just having more
Uğur Koç: business research done, or you know, what's the guideline? There.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah. So Neil has this saying that is called aim small, Miss Small. So you're looking at a very small target, and so you'll only miss it by like a teeny bit versus like looking at the whole picture. We will be trying to find a very narrow screening criteria to start with, and probably like a 3rd of you will have to go back and rewrite it. You're going to get through like 2 interviews and realize this isn't actually the right group of people.
Lilliana Robinson: So it'll be a lot of trial and error, which is completely fine, and we'll work with you on that.
Lilliana Robinson: Do you want to elaborate on that now.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah, I just typed it in the chat. I I will say it a lot any small Miss small
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and the reason being is that founders? You all have a lot of pressure
Neal Sáles-Griffin: from investors like myself and many others. And you're in techsars. That's a big deal. And you're building a great big company. So therefore you got to figure it all out now, and it's got to be big.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and I just want to humble all of us, and also give you all the the grace of knowing that.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Sure, I want you to build a big business, but not right away, and not in the next 3 months. I want you to build a great business that you're proud of, and that you're excited about, and we're not in a hurry for it to be huge. We can do that over the next 5 to 10 years. So let's get it right first, st and we'll take our time to make sure that we have the right people, that we're making very happy and successful first, st rather than trying to like scale really quickly, and then fall over and trip over ourselves
Neal Sáles-Griffin: so hopefully that comes through as we go.
Lilliana Robinson: What would you say to the founders who are feeling apprehensive about like they don't know where to start. They don't know what to what to choose for the struggle? Do they just pick something and then start moving around.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah, I would say.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: start
Neal Sáles-Griffin: with your instincts. This isn't particularly scientific, but in the beginning most startup moves aren't.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and that you need to go with your gut in who you want to learn more about and help. First, st
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you know what it is you want to build, and you have a hunch as to who you think you can help. But now you have to take a step back and have humility, and say, Well.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I think that this is what they want. And I think that this is a problem that's more than just my own.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Now, I need to experiment to figure out who it is I can actually help first.st
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So you're gonna have to make a few bets that are aren't as like, maybe educated or sophisticated, but indicative enough for you to make that like. Take that next step.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: so you'll learn a lot more about why I have this perspective. When you hear my story. In a few weeks, but, like
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I, I could give you more precise and scientific parameters to go about making the choice of who to help, who can pay you the most money. Now, who can teach you the most about the problem? You know there's a lot of ways to fill in the details, but at the end of the day. It's truly your own personal intrinsic
Neal Sáles-Griffin: instincts and motivations that are going to matter the most at this stage.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Does that clarify it?
Lilliana Robinson: But or does that answer your question?
Uğur Koç: Ye? Yeah, maybe maybe partially, because I'm like looking at the screen right now, we have a text saying that having 30 seconds to buy and eat something which will satiate our hunger for 30 min, so on, so forth, like this is a very specific
Uğur Koç: point in time, space where this person is finding themselves in. And usually when we are working with, when we're trying to pick out who to interview, we don't have this much information on them.
Uğur Koç: If if you know what I mean, and the only way to get that information out of them in my experience and this is probably limited, is to actually go and talk to them. So in this case do we 1st
Uğur Koç: have a brief chat.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Good.
Uğur Koç: Then set this thing up, or.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah, I like, I like that. I like that. You're asking. So the. So we're we're jumping the gun by showing you this because the interview screening criteria for getting this information is, I'm talking to people who recently bought snickers at an airport.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That's the screening criteria.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So I'm not looking for people who only had 30 seconds to buy something, and they were trying to stave off hunger. That's not a good criteria. I can find people who fit that profile, but I can work backwards from the point of purchase on the product itself.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So people who bought a snickers, or a power bar, or a coffee or an apple. The the people in that indirect competitive set that we indicated to you. If we're evaluating people who are in a rush and ate something very quickly
Neal Sáles-Griffin: at an airport gate before they got on the airport on the plane and and went to sleep
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and did a bunch of work.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Now we're talking like we're cooking with gas about who it is. We're trying to work backwards and reverse engineer. What were the inputs for them making that decision. What were the causal mechanisms there?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Does that make sense.
Uğur Koç: Yeah, no, it's clicked perfectly. Yeah. Thanks. Good.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Annie.
Annie Brown: Yeah, so sort of related to that. I think I
Annie Brown: we have a lot of like inbound requests to to talk to us and and introductions made of potential customers and things. And so I get a lot of these introductory calls like, I'm having one. At the end of this call for a potential customer.
Annie Brown: can you cause? What I've been doing is I've been turning kind of those introductory calls into these types of.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah.
Annie Brown: Use is that sort of a way to do that? And is there a way to make that feel more.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I've got a tip for you. So so you we saw when Clay gave his 4 min milkshake talk yesterday, and we watched the video together. There was something he said, that I I love revisiting. And in reminding in these situations when he was trying to figure out why people were going through the drive through on their own to buy these milkshakes.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and he goes. They would struggle to respond, and we asked them what job. They hired this milkshake to do
Neal Sáles-Griffin: so. He goes in a language that they could understand. We asked them
Neal Sáles-Griffin: so
Neal Sáles-Griffin: when you were in this same situation the last time.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and you didn't hire a milkshake. What did you hire.
Annie Brown: Yeah.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So my advice to you, Annie, is.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: they're coming from some context before talking to you
Neal Sáles-Griffin: where they were trying to make progress in some other way.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So your job isn't to necessarily talk about reliable now, and how we can serve you now. It's more to go. Well, how did we get here
Neal Sáles-Griffin: to have this conversation. What have you been up to? What have you tried to do so far? What's working and what isn't?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And you know, what opportunity are we facing now about what a better way might look like for you?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Right.
Annie Brown: Yeah, that's super helpful.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah, so it's so it's not a pure jobs to be done. Interview in the sense that, like, we do want to give you more structure and intentionality with who you're going to talk to? Precisely. And you're probably, gonna
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you know, pull them in rather than like, have them emerge on on your doorstep.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But I love your instinct of parlaying these conversations of potential customers into inquiring more about
Neal Sáles-Griffin: what brought them to you, to even be willing to have the conversation about their interest.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That's really good.
Annie Brown: And that helps kind of navigate where the discussion goes. Because then I can focus on a specific feature or things like that. If I know what is their biggest challenge and what they've tried before.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And and I'll tell you from a sales standpoint, as someone who's been doing sales for majority of my life. Now
Neal Sáles-Griffin: it is such a delight on the consumer end or customer side. When you, as the person who has something to offer or to sell.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: demonstrate true, genuine curiosity
Neal Sáles-Griffin: about their needs as opposed to self promotion, and immediately speaking to what you do and how it's going to help them, and why it's worth paying for.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So a lot of people really appreciate that.
Dave Scott: It's kind of interesting, because I've worked with a lot of really stellar sales organizations. So when I was at Oracle, the really good salespeople. The very, very 1st call that they would make to discover is is all questions.
Dave Scott: It was just all like, Hey, what do you need this for? What problem are you trying to solve? Blah blah? And it would be like a 15 to 30 min meeting, and it would just be they would not sell a single thing. They would just ask questions, and then the second meeting, they come back with whatever solution
Dave Scott: brilliant.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That's right.
Lilliana Robinson: Hmm!
Lilliana Robinson: And Annie, I I want to call out you said the word features. This is something that we'll get to, but we want to focus a lot more on the benefits. We're not selling features, even though we're all entrepreneurs. We love our features, we're obsessed with our product and all the cool bells and whistles on it. But I'm just putting a flag for you. We will debunk that soon.
Lilliana Robinson: Any. I also, I also wanted to put you on the spot I saw you're gonna leave for a customer discovery call today. Is that an interview? And are you.
Annie Brown: That's exactly. It's what I was just saying. It's somebody I was introduced to came into my inbox that said they might be interested in a partnership or or licensing our software. And yeah, so I'm kind of like taking notes from this call of what I can use in that one.
Annie Brown: but they might turn into like a formal jobs to be done. Interview.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, I wanna I wanna be clear that it's very important to maintain the integrity of the jobs to be done. Set and don't cloud it with sales. Those 2 things should be extremely bifurcated. Or else you're gonna mess with the data here of what we're collecting the quality data here. I don't know if you want to explain more, Neil, but how sales calls should be completely separate from when we're doing customer discovery.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah, I can talk about that. And I know you need to plug in your computer. So go go do that. But you're still here, Lila, still with us. She's got to eat some juice So
Neal Sáles-Griffin: to clarify. I do get a lot of founders at this phase that you all start interviewing because we're after today, you'll you'll know enough to get get going
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and it's gonna be so tempting when you talk to someone who you're interviewing. And you're like, Oh, my God! Like
Neal Sáles-Griffin: what I built is exactly for you, and you just can't resist
Neal Sáles-Griffin: the opportunity to show them your product or to send them a link to try it out, or to sign up to become a customer, because, you know, you'll close them if you do.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: It's really important for you to maintain the integrity of the demand side focus of your conversation, and what I will give you as a, as a, as a, as a pass is, follow up with them right afterwards.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: or at the end of the call, you can say, Hey, we really appreciate you. Taking the time to talk to us.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: What we're working on is, and we think it might be really interesting to share with you. Would you be open to having another conversation about it, or for us following up with more information.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So that's okay at the end of the call. But make sure you've gathered the information about their story and their journey and their problem. First, st before kind of
Neal Sáles-Griffin: conflating your interests as a potential resource or answer for their problem.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So I think you all appreciate that.
Lilliana Robinson: Can you hear me if I speak like this? Can you say yes.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah, it's a little. There's a little bit.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Always been.
Lilliana Robinson: London.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah, that's perfect. There you go. You're good.
Lilliana Robinson: It will sound kind of foreign to a lot of you to not bring up your product at all on these calls, but they should hear nothing about what you're building. It's actually completely sacrilegious to do that during the job speed on calls. So I want you guys to. Also, here's another mindset shift. That's why those 2 things need to be completely separate. So I'd love to answer any questions about that. But it's really important that we understand that.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So what I'm gonna do now is effectively just roll through a bunch of points that I've summarized from a resource that we're going to share with you at the end of
Neal Sáles-Griffin: You know this weekend next week, which is the book that Bob wrote
Neal Sáles-Griffin: more recent in more recent years. That kind of synthesizes a lot of the information that
Neal Sáles-Griffin: he's worked with me and others on over the past
Neal Sáles-Griffin: 13 years or so. Which is in a well organized book that you can always refer back to. But we decided, rather than forcing you all to read that book. Now we'll just summarize the important points for you to get started.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So one principle that we'll start with is people buy for their own reasons.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So we tend to project what we think people are buying for onto things, and we reason our way through what we we perceive the behavior to be.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: It's really important for us to take a step back with that humility, and understand each person's buying for their own reasons. And it's our job to uncover. Why not? Yes, or assume that we know.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: 2. This reminds me of something I think Monica mentioned yesterday about the randomness of you know your customer signing up or being interested.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I'm less aligned on. Nothing is random like, I think there's still room for randomness, but I do think more things are caused than than we might give credit for usually in these situations.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And the struggle creates demand. So the notion here is that
Neal Sáles-Griffin: there are people where you know what you have could be helpful to them.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: but if they don't understand why they need it yet, they may not be ready
Neal Sáles-Griffin: to say yes, or to get your help.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So sure there's a large market that you can serve.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But the people who are most ready to become your customers today are the ones that are actually experiencing some sort of friction or pain. So you want to talk to them 1st and find them before you reach out to the other folks, that you may have to do a lot more work to bring over the line.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: so
Neal Sáles-Griffin: as far as articulating that the buyers, timeline, and the 4 forces of progress. Understand the dominoes that have to fall into place like we talked about yesterday. You summarize this into a meaningful story with those functional, social, and emotional motivations. And then your sales process incorporates these insights. That's kind of how this all comes together. That's what we've talked about up till now.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So next phase is talking about how we define who we interview. In the 1st place.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So one exercise that I came up with that isn't included in Bob's book, or I think, in what's taught what jobs to be done. But it was more like a necessity for me to
Neal Sáles-Griffin: developed, because I've been teaching at at the early stage
Neal Sáles-Griffin: a startup phase
Neal Sáles-Griffin: for jobs to be done, which is different than most of the people who I've done jobs with because they're usually working with companies that have raised
Neal Sáles-Griffin: series A or have more capital. They can afford to pay people like Bob 6 figures for a 2 week, consulting project and stuff like that, whereas I know none of us here have those kind of resources. So I have to kind of do it my own way. So what I tend to have people do is write a customer. Success story.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So the what I mean by that is before you even have a clear idea on who it is that you're serving, or most of you have at least a semblance of who you think your customer might be.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Now, what I want you to do is answer these questions, of what problem are they currently facing?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: How does this impact their lives?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Why is this a significant pain to them as opposed to a slight discomfort or nuisance.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And then that's part one of the story that I want you to tell and part 2 is skipping the line on the solution like we're not like. The solution is a Pandora's box. I don't care whether you have one or not. Right now. We're not even thinking about the the how
Neal Sáles-Griffin: we're now jumping to the benefit.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: now that you, whatever that problem was that you well defined and told the story about somehow it got solved magically.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Now that it's solved.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: what does the customer's life look like now, after the problem is solved?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And I want you to drill well, beyond just the functional aspects of it.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So what does success mean to them? What does this better version of themselves look like?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So in a b 2 b context, I didn't just keep my job. I got promoted or the company really highlighted. This, you know, this decision I made to get them to buy this product. And now we have a lot of success. And here's what that translates to a year later, when it comes to performance reviews or evaluations. Or you know certain kpis or okrs at the business
Neal Sáles-Griffin: on the individual side. You all know this right? Imagine, like, I don't know a gym membership or a new home. Whatever version of your life gets better with a big and significant purchase that you made.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: There's a version of that that happened, and then how itself gets filled in afterwards. So the formula is, problem.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: plus solution
Neal Sáles-Griffin: leads to the opportunity. But the order is problem, opportunity, solution.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So again, like Liliana was saying, don't describe features or functionalities of your products when you do this focus on the experience facing the problem before and after your solution exists.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And then that narrative and story can illustrate those points in an effective and powerful way.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I don't need you all to do this. This is more advice from me if you're struggling to think about who you want to serve. So this isn't a prescribed assignment. We don't have a to do. I don't think for it, or maybe we do. You have to remind me if we do but even if we do, it's not something like I think I think most of you. I wouldn't have invested in you if I didn't believe you already had a good idea of what this might be.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: so I know you all are already like beyond this point. But I figured I'd remind you, if you ever need to go back to the drawing board or revisit this step.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Okay. So
Neal Sáles-Griffin: one other thing about finding who to interview. And we talked about this yesterday is to talk to people who have already hired something to make progress.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So you're not trying to talk to people who are potential customers yet. You're trying to talk to people who've already figured out an answer, and you have a hunch that
Neal Sáles-Griffin: the answer that they found is
Neal Sáles-Griffin: inadequate relative to what you could offer them.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: meaning, I have a better way, but let me understand the people who hired something else, who had the same need as to who I want to start.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So those success stories defined in in the previous step.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: How are they currently doing that? What? What is that? Pandora's box getting filled with without you?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And if you can't find anyone who has a solution. So some of you might feel like, well, no one is solving this problem.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I have no competition. There's no one on earth that can solve this but me now
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I would like I I say that in a cheeky way, because it sounds almost ridiculous.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I will say, though.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: for those of you who I mean, most of you probably don't know but my big claim to fame as a founder is. I founded the 1st coding school.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: so I started the 1st coding boot camp many, many years ago. It was called Code Academy, and
Neal Sáles-Griffin: it was my little humble claim to disruptive innovation, and that
Neal Sáles-Griffin: the way people were solving their problem before I launched my school, and many others thereafter
Neal Sáles-Griffin: was either going to grad school for computer science or being self-taught.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So that was the vast majority of the options that were available. So I did fill in a gap that was seemingly non existent before in many respects, and I I felt the benefit of that. So there is a notion of 1st mover, you know, within a segment that is real that I believe in, but it's just rare
Neal Sáles-Griffin: You can also refine. If you're still struggling to figure out who you should interview. You can also figure it out by doing some initial scoping interviews.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: so you may not have a clear idea on what the direct or indirect competitors are within your segment. So maybe you just need to find people who vaguely fit your criteria.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: talk to them and like get a feel for what it is that they're trying to do to make progress. So this might be helpful for Andy with your upcoming conversation.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Right? So maybe you don't know where they're coming from, and maybe they don't even know how to describe to you.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: You know why they they think they need your help, or what they were struggling with before.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But you'll start to fill in the pieces of what they were already doing. Maybe it was a person that they consulted with or hired a lot of the times instead of a product or service. It's usually like a human that someone works with to to fill in a gap for something that a product could replace instead.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And sometimes you'll have to get really creative right.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So it may not always be obvious what the direct or indirect hire was. So you'll have to do some digging, and you'll have to be really intentional about understanding the whole story.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Liliana yesterday talked about the importance of the learning objective. What do you want to find out? So going into the interviews and conversations. It's not enough to just say, Well, I want to figure out who wants to buy from me instead. It's also important to like more narrowly define. You know what that objective is. It could be. I want to figure out
Neal Sáles-Griffin: who
Neal Sáles-Griffin: who struggles the most with this problem at the earliest stage. I want to figure out who is willing to pay the most to make progress here. I want to figure out
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Why people leave so failure like studying like firing interviews. So when people let go of a product or they turn
Neal Sáles-Griffin: like there's plenty of jobs to be done, you know, research processes that I work with founders on where they're trying to mitigate churn now that they're getting some traction. But they have, like.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you know, before they close their next round. Investors need them to reduce churn by a certain amount, and then we have to go do a jobs to be done journey just to understand why people leave.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I did that recently, actually, with zest
Neal Sáles-Griffin: but once you get there and you have this understanding, then we can hone in on like what the objective is. So
Neal Sáles-Griffin: ask yourself, what's what's the biggest unknown that's important to you to understand right now?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So. And I just went through some of these examples already, which is just kind of reinforcing it.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Now we can talk about screening criteria. Am I going too fast, Liliana? Or am I good.
Lilliana Robinson: No, this is great.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Okay, cool. So
Neal Sáles-Griffin: the people you should try to talk to 1st are the folks who have invested the most significant energy resources into making the progress that you've identified. So the the highest energy folks.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: so they care the most about the problem. They're going to give you the most interesting insights early on, and it also sets you up to not have to interview 100 people to figure something out.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So you can interview 10 high quality. You know.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: true, struggling moment folks rather than people who are more loosely defined. And you have to sift through a lot more data and a lot more incomplete data to figure out where the demand is.
Dave Scott: How? How do you assess that? How do you assess.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah.
Dave Scott: High energy like, particularly like with my case. Right? It might just to get. I'm anxious to find people who've not bought my product right. And so how do I know.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Buying instead.
Dave Scott: There a lot of stuff. There's a lot. There's a lot of great lot of good games out there. But how do I know that they're high quality or high energy.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah. So there's a couple of things I think about Dave. So one is
Neal Sáles-Griffin: when I assess my current set of customers. I ask myself.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Who among these customers.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Would I give the world to have more of?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And that's probably not all.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: because they're not all created equal.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: You have a few customers like you, said your Diehards right, the ones that are like the most fervent, the most reliable, the most dependable, and the loyal that you have. Wouldn't it be nice if you had a way to understand who they were, so that you could get more of them into the fold.
Dave Scott: Got it. Okay? So.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Start there.
Dave Scott: Start there.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That's the high energy, right? So understand the people who are the most dedicated, the most reliable, who benefit the most from what your product is, and double down on understanding and serving them. First.st
Dave Scott: Okay, yeah, I've got 4 customers that do a 2 h podcast every week on my product. So maybe I'll start there.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: There you go. So that being said like, that's where you start. That's not where you end up right, because not everyone's going to be that die hard. But it's a great starting point. To to start with that energy.
Annie Brown: One thing that's that's worked well for us is actually just doing searches on Linkedin and searches online because you'll find a lot of companies are doing Linkedin posts about a problem or doing blog posts about a problem. That's how we actually came about Lex because they were writing about how they wanted to be leaders in the ethical AI space that they wanted, you know, a better solution to unbiased content moderation. And so that's how we
Annie Brown: kind of stepped in because we in start engaging with that content cause. We were passionate about that, too, and then we were able to start customer conversations. So a lot of these companies are writing about the problems that they're trying to solve, too.
Dave Scott: Yeah, I think that's a great great for b 2 b, I'm B to C, so I don't have that. But I'm thinking about going on to my competitors discord channels and finding who's a really active there, and then, seeing if I can interview them.
Uğur Koç: I also have one thing very specific for you, Dave. I looked a bit into your site.
Uğur Koç: And I saw that you guys are making games of, you know, well known titles like Rambo, so on, so forth. And I think one place to start, maybe, is to go on to steam pages, because on steam pages we have a game that we play amongst the team called Walheim and Walheim, partnered up with a game with a company similar to yours called Game Pound.
Uğur Koç: and they have created a tabletop version of the game, and it has gained, like 20,000 followers in the span of one month.
Uğur Koç: so maybe you can scout out games and then ask them to, you know. Ask them if they're interested in a supplementary product such as this, because it seems like a really good place to start, because anyone who's interested in Walheim plus the Rpg genre seems to be very interested. And then and then they're suddenly on there then and then that's a huge place to gain traction, I guess.
Dave Scott: Awesome. Thank you. I appreciate it.
Uğur Koç: I'll send you the link afterwards.
Dave Scott: Thank you.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So as a millennial, I I tend to use memes to communicate at times. So you all might remember this one.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I just dropped the image in as we were talking. Because this is what I'm trying to get to dig. It's you want to talk to people who
Neal Sáles-Griffin: in your in your mind are going to basically say, Shut up and take my money.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: When they hear about what you're doing, or they're they're more likely to be in that position. That's where I would start, as far as energy.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So you know, it's almost like the product sells itself to the folks that you want to start.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Few more principles to keep in mind quality over quantity, like, I said, talking to 100 people, I have so many founders, and and even investors
Neal Sáles-Griffin: that like care about quantity when it comes to customer
Neal Sáles-Griffin: research and discovery and interviews.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: How many?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Oh, only 10! 0, that's not impressive, I'm like, well, you know, 10 or 100. It's all about how like, how well of a job you did.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Who did you talk to, and
Neal Sáles-Griffin: how much did you actually learn and understand from them?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So honing that in is is essential.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And I think Liliana's exercise next week the exercise that she's going to put you all through is going to force
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you to think about who.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: when you reach out to them. To present your product.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: would undoubtedly say yes.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: like, who is a guaranteed yes, for what you're offering.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Forgive the language here. But this is another reference from Bob's book.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: between 8 switching. So what this basically means is the idea is that when somebody is complaining about something or unhappy with it, that doesn't mean that they're actually going to change their behavior. It's when they've actually done the work to change or or sign up for something new or different, that something actually comes to
Neal Sáles-Griffin: relevance when it comes to what you're trying to learn, and and that energy.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And it's like we said, not about demographics. So we made this point earlier, but just wanted to reinforce it here. It's all about context situation, and far less about those demographic details.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So here are a few helpful examples and excerpts from the book that I think are worth studying and taking some time to process right now. So let me know if this is legible for all of you, because I know the text is a little small
Neal Sáles-Griffin: but there's the traditional criteria on the left, and then what we tend to speak to is better criteria on the right.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So college students with busy and stressful schedules that's very vague.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: whereas college students who started going to therapy within the past 6 months. That's an action that they took. That's something that they hired, and it gives you a lot more grounding energy to understand.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: You know, I hired something to make progress, and I can work my timeline and my forces of progress around that event itself
Neal Sáles-Griffin: rather than just fitting the broader context of being a busy, stressful. You know college student.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: the clinicians who treat a specific specified condition.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Okay, you can even specify the condition
Neal Sáles-Griffin: or
Neal Sáles-Griffin: clinicians who have recently hired an assistant to better treat the condition
Neal Sáles-Griffin: right? So the higher the action that they took where they had to either give something up, sacrifice something, or spend real money.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: To make progress. That's where you want to orient who you're speaking to and where you're driving. And then the last one is the crypto one
Neal Sáles-Griffin: curious about cryptocurrency, or I think
Neal Sáles-Griffin: kids these days called crypto. Curious, I think. And then people who recently bought their 1st one.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So I think you're starting to understand the point of
Neal Sáles-Griffin: when you can actually anchor around an an action that they took as opposed to a
Neal Sáles-Griffin: category that they fit into. You're gonna get a lot more
Neal Sáles-Griffin: salient.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Starting like a very, very relevant starting point for how you can actually conduct the conversation?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Does this make sense.
Filiz Yönyüksel: Yeah, I want to say something just.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Sure.
Filiz Yönyüksel: Hearing about. All of this makes me feel really good, because, like previously, when since I'm in the like academic research and like product development part I normally don't go to talk with the customers and stuff in general, but, like afterwards, when we're talking with the team is always makes me like furious thinking that we have the solution. Why are not? Why are they not interested in using the solution and like
Filiz Yönyüksel: talking about this like, it's because they are already used to their solutions they're using, or they are not, as you mentioned, are not.
Filiz Yönyüksel: aware of the problem as we are so now
Filiz Yönyüksel: thinking that we should actually like the 1st step, should be talking to people who tried to find the solution, or like are eager to solve. This makes me feel really good, because, like, it will make us feel more hard and stuff.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Absolutely you nailed it, and I'll I'll probably have to remind some of you of this as we go. I know that just reading it once isn't gonna like, make it easy to do
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and I'll ask you, oh, well, what does the screening criteria mean, or or what did they buy? What? What experience are you working backwards from? And I I find myself doing that a lot, especially early on in program. So all all good, if that ends up being the case with you.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Another note for b 2 b companies. Businesses don't buy products. People do. I said this yesterday again. But again, who are the decision makers? What are the layers and the hierarchies within these organizations that you're going to have to pass through? And what are each of them, you know, defining a success. And it's usually very different at different levels.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So this is the person who signs off
Neal Sáles-Griffin: on it. There's a person who's the champion who makes the case. There's the person.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: It's an ultimately feedback
Neal Sáles-Griffin: just to
Neal Sáles-Griffin: actually use the product, you know themselves. It matters and to Uer's point earlier.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: This is not a group interview, obviously. And the other challenge is
Neal Sáles-Griffin: it's really hard to get these people on the phone sometimes.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: right? So there, it's hard to find everyone to talk to. So
Neal Sáles-Griffin: if you're only one.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I hover between the decision maker
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and what I refer to as the champion
Neal Sáles-Griffin: deal right, because it's going to make them look good to get it done, and it makes either life better or you know their their job easier or something like that. So interviewing the champion, and how they become an advocate of a product or service being adopted within a company, and and signed up for is usually a good place to start
Neal Sáles-Griffin: for the P. 2 B. Folks.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So how do you find these people?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: There's a few recruitment platforms that a lot of our founders and a lot of people tend to find success in, responded I/O userinterviewscom. And there's more that you can now search online and find out about. I will out myself
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and say that I've never used them
Neal Sáles-Griffin: most. And many of our founders have used these tools.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But I really am a glutton for punishment in that I like the hard manual journey of having to find them
Neal Sáles-Griffin: without having to.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: use a tool like I I like to do it like manual. I like to get referrals. I like to do research. I like to find out where they are, and like introduce myself to them and hunt them down and meet them wherever they might be, and introduce myself and get them to talk
Neal Sáles-Griffin: so Liliana looks like you have your hand up.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, I just wanted to draw everyone's attention to this, because the number one question we'll get after everyone writes. Their screening criteria is, what do I do now? How do I find them? So these are great tools. I want to hear any sorts of ideas you guys are already thinking of, or any hesitations you might have, because this is actually where I see the most founders get stuck. This is what Neil calls the hunt, and it's actually his favorite part. But a lot of the founders find a lot of difficulty here.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Liliana, you might want to speak on this next slide, because I know I think you even wrote this.
Lilliana Robinson: I don't know if I wrote this, because I'm not sure what we mean by screening survey.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Oh, so this is when you're filling out the respondent. I I dot I/O
Neal Sáles-Griffin: like when you're actually filling using the tool. So when you're trying to figure out like, who can fit the criteria to use one of those tools. It's really important to to not ask leading questions and to be really explicit about who you want to talk to, because, unfortunately, when you're paying
Neal Sáles-Griffin: to find people to interview.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: sometimes people lie.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and they'll say they fit the criteria, even even if they don't.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So you're going to have to frame questions and screen who you want to talk to in a very like specific way. Otherwise you'll find people that you'll interview. That will be a waste of your time.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So the more specific and nuanced you can get for who
Neal Sáles-Griffin: it is that you want to speak to what they recently purchased, and how they're struggling the better off you'll be, and the more time you'll save.
Lilliana Robinson: And that's if you use respond at all. I highly recommend just trying to find them organically through the network of your network. So, like Neil had on another side like.
Lilliana Robinson: Think about Facebook. Think about. I think it's on the next slide, Linkedin. Things like that, because last time we had a lot of founders use respondentio, and they had to throw out probably a quarter of their interviews. So just know that that's part of the game. If you're going to do that like. There will be a few people who are just doing it like kind of lying, and not being super honest.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: It's also
Neal Sáles-Griffin: very common for people to try to like find like
Neal Sáles-Griffin: friends and other folks like that to help them out with these interviews. Just be careful about like screening them for the actual behavior, right? Because a lot of folks want to helping you out. And you want to open up, you know, possibilities, and you're open to talking to anyone. And if you're even
Neal Sáles-Griffin: indirectly or vaguely related to the problem you want to solve, you want to talk to, because you're just getting more data. Sometimes we find founders having to throw out certain interviews
Neal Sáles-Griffin: because it doesn't really fit into the right set for you to do the analysis.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So just be mindful of that. Not to waste your time, Monica.
Monica Roy (Seascape Clinical): Yeah, I mean, what if
Monica Roy (Seascape Clinical): the people that you're targeting are
Monica Roy (Seascape Clinical): not very numerous? Is it
Monica Roy (Seascape Clinical): best to incentivize it? Especially if you don't know them personally like. Do you need to incentivize them in some way?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yes.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: yeah, paying paying them the the people tend to really like Amazon gift cards.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That's like a universally appreciated thing.
Monica Roy (Seascape Clinical): $10!
Dave Scott: Starbucks, gift cards and studies are, they don't have to be. Yeah, 10 bucks is more than enough. It actually, there's actually some some studies that say that the bigger it is, the the more false positives you get, because you'll get people who are not motivated. So the smaller the number, the more qualified your respondents will be. So like 5 or 10 bucks is what I've heard is pretty awesome.
Monica Roy (Seascape Clinical): Okay. Thanks.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Any.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: You're muted.
Annie Brown: Always got to be at least one in a call. So as far as finding the type of customer like a lot of our interviews up until now have been I guess, with the well, it wasn't an interview, but like a lot of the customers we've talked to and dive dove into their problem have been like kind of startups or or small businesses. Up until now. One thing I'm trying to really learn is like what
Annie Brown: bigger enterprise companies, what their problems are? Because I you know, that's, I think our our next step. Is it worth putting in the time to try to find somebody at those enterprise companies? Or
Annie Brown: do you get kind of the same
Annie Brown: input same problem at a smaller company versus a a enterprise.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah, I think to Monica's point yesterday. I think it does tend to change
Neal Sáles-Griffin: at at different sizes. So it would be worth creating a different set of conversations within that category.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: It's going to take some time.
Annie Brown: Yeah.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Right cause. It takes time to schedule those conversations and all that, so you won't get it all done in one fell swoop. So I think Liliana also mentioned this last time yesterday, but
Neal Sáles-Griffin: we, what we want to do with you now is, do your best to
Neal Sáles-Griffin: fit into the parameters of when we can like, at least do this 1st rep.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So wherever you can talk to in the next few weeks that you can schedule time with great, so that we can help you, and at least demonstrate what to do and how to analyze the information.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Then take all the time you need to structure your own.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you know, process relative to those larger clients that might take a longer time to book. You know meetings with.
Annie Brown: Great.
Lilliana Robinson: That's true, I would say what Neil's saying.
Lilliana Robinson: We're defining round as like a full set of jobs to be done. So like every I say, like round Neil might say, like Set, that's every 12 interviews that's like a full set. So you're going to be able to derive jobs out of that set from a specific learning objective that you made. So that'll be like a complete round or set that we're doing together.
Lilliana Robinson: like Neil is saying skew that toward what would be easier to accomplish, just so that you can stay with the group because it is a learning exercise, even if, like the thing you want to learn is actually like more high priority that you want to do later, like with enterprise. But it's really important that you separate them.
Lilliana Robinson: So like an enterprise
Lilliana Robinson: company, should never fall into the same screening criteria for you. Annie has, like a small business, because those are completely different. I'm sure they have different struggles, and a very well tuned and narrow screening criteria would never be able to put like both of them in.
Lilliana Robinson: And then the last thing I was going to answer. Your question is, it depends on your learning objective. So when you were saying like, Oh, should I ask enterprise? Should I include that? Well, is that what you want to know like, is your learning objective to find out if it's worth it to like, go toward that direction which is something like Agent lunar, for example. There they have that kind of learning objective like. Is this vertical worth it for me to pursue? If that's how you feel. You can do that as like your second set.
Lilliana Robinson: And most people in program at this point, since we've been so heavily immersing everybody in jobs to be done for the past like 6 programs.
Lilliana Robinson: I would say the majority do at least 2 rounds, so I'll do one together. And then I would say, like at least half go into another. And some people even do like 3.
Lilliana Robinson: So keep that in mind that this is just like we're learning together. But it's not going to stop after this.
Annie Brown: Okay, yeah, that's that's super helpful.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Great. Alright, I'm gonna keep blazing through here.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So what we're we're good on time. Okay, cool. So framing the interview. So
Neal Sáles-Griffin: it's also about timing.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So it's not just about finding people who fit the criteria, but they need to have fit the criteria in the right timeframe where you can actually
Neal Sáles-Griffin: help them recall what happened.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: There's folks that you might find who had this problem 3 years ago.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and when you speak to them
Neal Sáles-Griffin: it's going to be really difficult to get them to recall what was going on 3 years ago, to get them to want to buy and to be ready for that every now and then, if you're good enough, you can still uncover some things. But I just gotta say it's really really hard. And and for that matter, for most of you.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: that 1st interview that you do with with what we are teaching you.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: It's probably gonna suck like it's gonna you're not going to know what to say. You're not going to know how to start the conversation. It's going to be uncomfortable and awkward. You might stumble over your words, you'll you'll wish you could. Just it. It like, forget it ever happened.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And that's okay. That that's kind of comes with the territory. I I refer to it as the sacrificial pancake.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: so I don't know if any of you all ever make pancakes, but you know that 1st one's never quite right, you know. Same with sales calls. It's it's a whole thing. Fun side note. If you I think if you Google sacrificial pancake I wrote an article about that idea many, many years ago, and I show up on the 1st page. Anyway. So
Neal Sáles-Griffin: also, when you're conducting the interview some some strange things might happen.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: People will tend to plan up
Neal Sáles-Griffin: if they feel like they're being interrogated
Neal Sáles-Griffin: right? And they'll be hesitant to to give you details. So one thing you may have noticed from Bob's mattress interview
Neal Sáles-Griffin: is that he was very cordial and friendly, and it felt more like
Neal Sáles-Griffin: like a true discussion and dialogue, and not just like a sit down formal and okay. So tell me about this time.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So you all are going to have to try to develop your own style and your own relationship with your subjects and the people you're interviewing
Neal Sáles-Griffin: for me. I really enjoy relating to who I'm talking to and almost act like I'm having a really like just fun time with them, like I'm sitting down for coffee
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and chatting to get to know them better. So I I tend to take that approach. You have to develop your own, you know. Particular vibe
Neal Sáles-Griffin: but at the end of the day what's really, really fun is that after 30 min.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: usually, if you did it right, they're sitting back and wondering
Neal Sáles-Griffin: how you got them
Neal Sáles-Griffin: to share so much about their lives. They're like sitting there like, how did you get me to say all that? But people love talking about themselves, and if you get them going. They tend to divulge way more than you ever thought that they
Neal Sáles-Griffin: so I really enjoy doing that.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Let's see.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So I I this is a pretty aggressive word, right interrogation, but it does feel like a casual conversation like talking to a friend. Much easier said than done,
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and also going into the process with humility. So
Neal Sáles-Griffin: unfortunately, you all are really smart people and smart founders tend to think that they they figure out what's going on very quickly. So when you're having a conversation, one mistake that people tend to make in these interviews is that as the person's answering your question.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you start to jump in and fill in what they're going to say.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Oh, okay, I get it. I see what you're saying, or I know what you mean. Or do you mean this?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Don't do that.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Let them speak.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And there's even a version of this that I recommend called playing dumb
Neal Sáles-Griffin: like, even if you think you understand what they mean by referring to a particular thing in a particular way. Ask them to explain it further.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: even if it made sense to you. No, wait. What do you mean by that? Or I'm actually not sure how much that is, or what does fast mean to you, or what does hard mean to you when is something easy. So I'll draw the contrast in whatever they're saying, and I'll ask them to elaborate or explain what the difference is.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So it. You're kind of trying to
Neal Sáles-Griffin: be a little bit more ignorant in in how you're interacting with them so that you can get them to articulate in their own language rather than filling in with your words.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: We talked about causality already. We talked about trade offs as well, so the notion of trade offs is that it's not just all in or all out. I'm weighing certain factors to say yes or no to a given decision I need to make when I'm switching from one thing to another.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And most people don't know why they do what they do, but they think that they know.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and that includes all of you.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So one great exercise is for you all to interview each other, or you know, maybe even people on your team on a recent purchase that you've made, and I'll demonstrate this. Live probably tomorrow or next week.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But the whole idea is that, like.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: when I ask you about some purchase you made you tend to go. Oh, well, I did it, you know, because I couldn't sleep at night. So I bought this new pillow.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and it turns out like that wasn't the only the whole story turns out that there was. You know, someone got upset with you the next day because you reacted bad because you had a bad night's sleep, or you know your partner was rolling around the middle of the night and really upset, you know, like there's always more detail going on than what you remember at the top of your head as to why something happened.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And then here's another sad truth of people lie. They don't do it with malintent, or, you know, on purpose to mislead you. But sometimes people are lying to themselves about why they did something.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and we have to be empathetic to that, because every now and then you'll talk to someone, and they'll they'll they'll obfuscate, or they'll omit something from the story at least initially because then maybe they're not comfortable yet, or there's some other reason why they might not be divulging the whole truth about a situation, so just be ready for that
Neal Sáles-Griffin: as far as the process itself. We have a few more tips. One is. This might surprise some people, but have more than one person on the call.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: so ideally. The the magic number is 2.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So you want one person. Oh, look at my balloons. You want one person who is driving the conversation.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and another person who is actively taking notes and trying to fill in the timeline and paying attention to what's missing.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: By the way, when I say on the call.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I mean it meaning not a video.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: but a phone call.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Does anyone want to guess why
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I'm recommending, not doing a video, and instead doing a phone call.
Talitha Abraham: Is it because when people see your face, maybe they're more likely to change their answer based on your own reactions that you naturally have? So yeah.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Exactly.
Florence Ettlin: You build empathy with the person when you can see their expression. And
Florence Ettlin: I don't know. Yeah, you you become very friendly when you're even in person or over a video. So.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And you also worry about what you look like and how you're re representing yourself on screen, right?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: They're worried about how they look and how they're coming off. You're worried about how you look when you have you and your team member.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you can't always react to what they're saying, because maybe they're saying something that's really exciting for you. But you're trying to
Neal Sáles-Griffin: stay face and make sure you're maintaining your composure to drive the conversation. But on the side you want to be able to like, go, wow! That's really interesting. Let's dig in here more. So on a phone call, you're more likely to be able to do some of those dynamic
Neal Sáles-Griffin: reactions and plans as opposed to
Neal Sáles-Griffin: when more bias enters the conversation and situation. When you're conducting the interview. So by and large. We've learned that the best form of a jobs to be done interview over both in person and video
Neal Sáles-Griffin: is an actual voice phone call.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Dave.
Dave Scott: And so, yeah, so so a zoom call with a video off does not count or does count.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That counts. That counts.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I think a phone call is.
Dave Scott: Who's better?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Even better, but that that works as well.
Lilliana Robinson: Do you have advice for solo founders? So for everyone that didn't hear like the the very important part from this slide is 2 people on the call. So you need a note taker. One's the driver. One's the note taker, slash kind of navigator filling out the timeline.
Lilliana Robinson: and it needs to be a no video call. Now, you don't have to be in the same place, although it is helpful when the 2 of you are in the same place, because then you can hit mute, and you can discuss and say, Oh, you forgot to ask this, or we need to go down this thread if you have to be far away, you can just have a separate like chat open. So you guys are like talking on the back end. But we do have several solo founders, so I'm sure they're wondering what.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: You've got a few options.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: One you can do it with fellow founders here. It's always good for you all to get more reps and to support each other and to gain that experience when you have. So we've actually not only had some jobs to be done.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: We have founders who form sales groups
Neal Sáles-Griffin: where you all like pile together, and you sell on each other's behalf because it turns out, isn't it easier to sell someone else's product than your own. Sometimes, because you don't even care. It's like the the risk is super low. I I can. I could screw up selling, you know Dave's evil genius products because it's not mine, right?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So it's kind of fun to do that. And I recommend that with the interviews, too, because you'll have people who will hear different things than you.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And when I have founders who get particularly stuck, meaning you've tried to do interviews. And now you're struggling.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: calling. The big guns.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Neil and Liliana are at the ready, so I won't do every interview with you, but I'll jump in there. I have a lot of fun conducting interviews, and either driving the conversation or playing the the passenger seat. I'm always happy to join you all, if if that's meaningful or helpful, especially towards the end.
Lilliana Robinson: If you are, if you're not struggling and you don't need to pull in the big guns. Other options are. We? Do have Chloe, who has helped other people. Chloe's on the call, and Chloe can join your interviews as well as George and Kevin are 2 associates. You guys haven't met Kevin yet, but he knows this well, and he can help you. And then George is on the call learning this alongside with you, so I'm sure he'd love the opportunity to not take for you guys as a learning experience. So you also have extra hands here that you can employ, especially for all of my founders going through this alone.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: One other mistake I know some founders make is they outsource the responsibility of conducting these interviews.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: meaning they'll they won't as founders, or as the CEO take ownership of the process at this stage.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and I'm telling you
Neal Sáles-Griffin: like there are much larger businesses and much later stages where the leadership are required to be in the room or the part of these interviews, and it's really important
Neal Sáles-Griffin: because you, as a leader of your business and the owner of it are setting the vision in the North Star for this. So no one's going to care or understand or appreciate what's being done with your business and who you want to help more than you.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So I can't emphasize enough how important it is for you not to treat this as like a side mission
Neal Sáles-Griffin: that someone else needs to deal with and come back to you with their findings. And it's such something that you're taking ownership over and leading the charge on, and then maybe
Neal Sáles-Griffin: follow up interviews or or additional learning questions or more digging can be done with others that you then guide and participate in later, but at least the initial waves of this should be done by the owners. In my opinion.
Lilliana Robinson: Also Akadena. Are you interested in being some of these founders note takers on the calls.
akadinayadegar: Since you're also.
Lilliana Robinson: Jobs to be done. Okay, cool. So we also have Acadena. You guys can employ as a notetaker as well. So we just want to make sure everybody has someone else on the call for the debrief do. Is that something that we have a slide for? Now.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I think so. I think you know, I'm going through it all now. So I did the phone video thing. Making sure you record the conversations.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you'll be surprised. I know it sounds awkward now.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: like 99% of the time they're comfortable with you recording.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And the way that you make them comfortable is you make it very clear like, Hey, we're not going to use this information for any other purpose than for our own research. We will never divulge anything personal about you. We won't identify your name. Nothing like that. Usually people are cool with it. If they're not, you'll have to take really copious notes, but it's rare that someone will reject it.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And we talked about phone being greater than video. We also talked about taking notes. So just be ready to take them in real time.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: usually having a shared place where you can both fill in the timeline, if you're doing it with 2 people, is really good.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and then can't emphasize enough.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Bake in time for the debrief after every scheduled interview.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Do not, I repeat, do not
Neal Sáles-Griffin: stack a bunch of interviews without time for debrief in between.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Because what happens is is your head starts to conflate all of the different inputs from different conversations. And then it's hard to keep track of what you heard and from home.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So you want at least 10 to 15 min after a 20 or 30 min interview to go. What did we learn here? What did we hear? How do we map the forces and where are what questions do we still have, and what don't we agree on between the 2 of us, about what we just heard?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Really.
Lilliana Robinson: Wait. Yeah, on this, on this slide. So the things that need to happen in the debrief. 1st of all, you should have been filling out the timeline and taking notes during the call. After the call. In this we're saying 10 to 15, I think in the 1st few times it will take you guys the 15 to 30 for the debrief. You're going to finish the timeline. So if you were rushing through and finishing the call, you might have missed the last few things. So finish the timeline.
Lilliana Robinson: Then you're going to do a diagram of forces like we talked about on the call yesterday the forces come after the call. So you're going to discuss together like felt like this was a push. This was a pull when it says Malas here. That's more about less about. So that is addressed in demand side sales the book we're going to assign, you guys.
Lilliana Robinson: But Neil has kind of been hinting at that this whole time. And then the last thing here which is listed as Step 2 is making a preliminary jobs to be done. Statement for that one interview. So you're going to make like a hypothesis kind of like a guess. And that's just so that you can help summarize it for yourself, and we're going to use those later. I'll explain in part 4 what we're going to do with that. But those are the 3 things you want to accomplish in the debrief, and it's really important that you do that.
Lilliana Robinson: Don't stack another, even not even another interview. Don't just go into another meeting right after, I promise you you will forget the stuff when it's not fresh in your brain.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: All right, we're almost done.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So we'll talk about completing your 1st interview.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and then we'll kind of talk through the script of what this looks like, because
Neal Sáles-Griffin: we'll get it wrong. And that's okay. So you introduce yourself. You thank them effusively for taking the time to talk to you. You ask for permission to record solely for our internal purposes. Then you set the stage and expectations.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So no right or wrong answers. You've heard Bob, do this for the mattress interview, but we're revisiting it and giving you the script. We might ask really weird, detailed questions. It's all part of the process. If you can't remember something that's okay, sways your concerns there. And also, just then this becomes important.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Ask for forgiveness
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and permission to interrupt them politely during the conversation. Because
Neal Sáles-Griffin: people, when you interview them tend to get off track. Sometimes they tend to go down these paths, and you're running out of time, and you don't want to be rude.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So, but but they they end up kind of going long winded in a direction that isn't helpful to you anymore.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So you're gonna have to jump in and go, hey? Just to respect your time. I want. I want to make sure that we, you know, get get done in time to to get you back. What you need to do?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Can we? Can we jump more in the into this next subject, or can I ask you additional question?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And having a second person with you helps a lot for that, too, because they can kind of break up that monotony. So it's not just a 1 on one
Neal Sáles-Griffin: but as you're doing the interview figure out, you know where the energy is. So every now and then you're covering like the the main details of the timeline. But when you hear someone express some sort of
Neal Sáles-Griffin: frustration, or there's a stronger emotional reaction at a point when they're telling you their story.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That's when you want to slow down
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and dig deep and go. Okay, wait. Let's talk more about
Neal Sáles-Griffin: or and then. Now you can imagine that timeline like, almost like, if anyone's done any video editing.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you know how like, when you're doing something, either an Imovie or something, and you zoom in. And then the space of the video bands a bit.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That's what we're trying to get you all to do in some of these interviews and conversations when you have a particularly like like juicy moment that you're talking to them about.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So it got to the point where I'm up at 4 am. Searching online for mattresses. Ding, ding, ding, okay.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: what's going on at 4 am.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Right now, now, this is this is pretty serious. Let's let's let's dig deeper. Let's figure out more of what's going on there.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: One of my favorite phrases that I say a lot as I go through. All of this is context creates meaning and contrast creates value or contrast creates meaning. I play around with these words a lot, but I learned them all from Bob.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But here's a few comparisons that kind of speak to these points.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: We're good with time. Okay, cool. So why do it virtually?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That's a vague question.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: You can clarify. Why do it virtually by saying, Why not? Just get into your car and drive to the doctor. So if you add a little bit more of a nudge about what not to do or why not to do something? It doesn't lead the witness. It activates the person you're interviewing to answer a more direct contrast to what they're doing.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So when someone says it installed fast compared to it installed fast in just under 2 min the last program took 5 min to install.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So you're trying to color more of what happened before and around
Neal Sáles-Griffin: something rather than just taking them at their word that something happened quickly or slowly, or easily, or in a hard way. So you hear hard, fast, quick, slow, easy.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Don't settle for the word, meaning all types of things to all types of people, or you thinking you know what they mean, get them to elaborate and expand on.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I bought this new laptop, and it's really good compared to. I bought this new laptop, and it's really good.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Or I bought this laptop. And it's good.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: There's different ways of, you know, emotional reactions that people have. And you want to respond to the version of it that actually, you know, triggers more, more depth and energy.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: What's RAM, anyway? You know what I mean versus. Why don't you know how much RAM you have?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you're trying to relate to them as well? And as you're having these conversations
Neal Sáles-Griffin: rather than putting them on a back foot and making them either self conscious or uncertain, try to like, align with them a bit. Try to relate to them. Show that you understand, and you can empathize with what they're going through and how they're thinking about.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Why were you at the doctor.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That's very invasive as an initial question or a very personal one. Ask.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: whereas if you just say, Hey, I've got a personal question and feel free not to answer it if you're not comfortable. But why are you at the doctor?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So there's a way to frame things so that you're being kind and and considerate to another human who you're asking very particular questions to. And I've made this mistake myself.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: or I've said literally, why were you at the doctor, and someone goes. That's a little personal to ask, you know, and I'm like, Oh, I'm so sorry, like I had to walk it back. So I'm saying it, not from a position of like being better like I've made these mistakes myself. But just be mindful of the person on the other end, and how they might receive a question that could be really, really digging in. And to Uer's point yesterday
Neal Sáles-Griffin: it is sometimes relevant to ask at this depth, and you will surprise yourself with what people are willing to share.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Like people get really honest and vulnerable when they feel like they can trust you
Neal Sáles-Griffin: in that you're having a genuine conversation with them, and that you care
Neal Sáles-Griffin: so to the extent that you actually do is going to make a difference here in what data you can gather.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and this kind of goes without saying. But I do need to say it
Neal Sáles-Griffin: sometimes. There might be a disagreement where you may not agree with what they're saying, or they get a detail that's like wrong. That, you know, is factually incorrect.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: This is why you want to have more than one person on the call.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: because, instead of putting the person you're interviewing on the spot about a specific detail that may or may not be right.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: You and the other person could question it to each other on the call in front of the person you're interviewing.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and go. I think that they they meant this. No, no, I, this is what I heard.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and then you go. Well, what do you think?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So? There's a way to indirectly get them to weigh in, to settle
Neal Sáles-Griffin: is there something that's confusing or in disagreement between you all?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: It's really helpful to have a 3rd person in there for that purpose?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: How is buying a phone like buying a laptop
Neal Sáles-Griffin: rather than asking them the same question and getting them to just. But why? But why? But why can you explain that again? Can you explain in different words? Sometimes you find you hit a wall.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: even though you're trying to dig in on something important. So you have to reframe the question, or dig deeper and add more layers to the question. To get closer.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I just ran through all of these tips were these helpful.
Lilliana Robinson: Do you guys have questions? We should pause for a second cause. That was a lot of tips.
Lilliana Robinson: Okay, remember that you can revisit this. Remember that you can revisit this recording. Once you have an interview scheduled on the calendar, you guys are going to start like panicking and want to write a script, and I'm telling you you don't need a script. See? See it as a casual conversation, and revisit this recording. Just watch these tips again, and so that you feel prepared, and you can always ask us questions. Then.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Alright, we're almost done here. Y'all so hypotheticals and generalizations. The would you question is so common, and it just breaks my heart when I hear you all ask it. It's like asking someone hypothetically what they would rather do.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Do you think you're going to get an honest answer from them?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Probably not. So it's like asking someone what they would pay.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Oh, well, they said they would pay $20. Oh, they said they would. Did you ask them for the money?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: No, but they said they would. Oh, sure. Okay.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Well, make them take up their checkbook, you know. Pull out your little, you know. All right, bump it. Send me the money. I'll send you a venmo right now. That's how you know it's real.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: not just someone claiming that they would.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So be really careful about generalizations and hypotheticals?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Also, it's gonna feel really good when someone's like, especially when you're interviewing recent customers. And they're talking about how happy they are with what they bought from you, and how great you are and how much they want to help you. It's gonna feel great.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But you're gonna have to be.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you know, very, very gracious, and how you parlay that into making it back about them
Neal Sáles-Griffin: rather than centering it around your experience, and how awesome you were, and how great your product is. There's a time and place for you to get that kind of feedback and praise, but it's not in the context of a jobs interview.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Catch yourself with assumptions. Yeah, that makes perfect sense. That's a very common phrase that when you say it, and you hear yourself saying it.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Take a step back, pause.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Don't let it make perfect sense. Help them unlock and elaborate on. Why, that makes sense.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: whatever it is that they're saying, don't just fill in the gaps.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And when you notice, people are kind of cutting it short.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: one really cool technique
Neal Sáles-Griffin: is to repeat what you think. You're hearing them say incorrectly
Neal Sáles-Griffin: because it will trigger them to step in and go. That's not what I said, or that's not what I meant.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and it forces them to re-engage in the conversation, to elaborate and give you more detail and color the situation again. This is a really clever one.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Again, stay away from product related questioning, focus on the story of making progress the demand side, not the supply side.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Most, if not, all of you are going to be drawn
Neal Sáles-Griffin: with extreme magnetism towards product feedback
Neal Sáles-Griffin: feels good again. But it's not what we're going for right now.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So you did that 1st interview with all these tips that we gave you. It didn't go so well. So you have to do more. But you'll naturally start to identify clusters.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So you may have gone in with a very well defined screening criteria. But after 2 or 3 interviews, you realize, okay, we got to start over.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I thought I was interviewing the right person. But actually, it turns out, these are the people we need to talk to.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So you may have to start over again, and that's okay. But just be mindful of it, and recognize that when you're doing it right, when you know you're doing it right.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: It does get to the point where, on the back end.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you and the person you've been doing the interviews with go. They're going to say this next, or you already know what job cluster they're fitting into, and you kind of start to place them into that bucket on the back end in real time. That's when you know you're onto something, and I get really excited whenever that happens.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So to nearly wrap up, you refine your clusters.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: one to 3 high level Jtbd. Statements which will give you the format for and explain to you what that looks like.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and then it becomes your source of truth for your company. So it becomes usually a document or a resource, and we'll have you all present this right after mentor madness. And actually, I think in week 2 as well. So be 2 phases of it.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Where we'll have you all present to each other what you think
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you know your your jobs to be done are for each of your respective companies.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Annie.
Annie Brown: So when when we were doing this for the application process, we broke up our 3 jobs to be done into the 3 verticals that we are focusing on. So what would you suggest? For this like since we're doing? I guess 12. Would we do 3 for one vertical or 4, for one vertical, 4 for one vertical, 4 for another, vertical.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So I don't have a hard number for you, because we have to find out from the conversations. So some of you might have one
Neal Sáles-Griffin: overall.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: A few of you might have 2 or 3 per vertical. So there's anywhere from 6 to 7 or 8 that you're talking about.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Oh, the number of inner. Okay? Sorry.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So they. So it sounds like from what Liliana just clarified with me that you're asking about separate
Neal Sáles-Griffin: sets of interviews with different learning criteria, different segments that you're talking to.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Is that right?
Annie Brown: So like. If if the total number that we are supposed to do is 12,
Annie Brown: should we? Should we do 12, all focused on one vertical, or would, should we do some verticals
Annie Brown: within that 12.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, so you're asking, based on the application process. So in that one, we didn't give you guys all of this specific requirements and such, because it was much more an introduction to see how you guys fared with that. Those actually all need to be different sets. So I would not put a bunch of, because there's not going to be a screening criteria that encompasses all of those different.
Annie Brown: People.
Lilliana Robinson: If if you are narrow enough, those people actually won't fit into your little like circle that you're going to draw of this is who I want to interview. So you're going to want to do different sets. I would start with
Lilliana Robinson: whatever learning objective you're most burning to solve, or what? Whoever is the easiest for you to get a hold of. That's who I would start with. Another parameter, I think, is like, who is the person people most likely to give you money, because that's probably the vertical you want to learn the most about. So that's also something you can think about. But a lot of you probably did like 3 Jtbds and did like 3 different people. And they actually weren't aligned something we didn't say in this. But you can think from a data perspective.
Lilliana Robinson: A lot of times people will come back to us and say, I'm not seeing any patterns. I've done 10 interviews so far, and they just seem all over the place like, I'm not really learning anything. Seems like everyone kind of has a different issue.
Lilliana Robinson: I will challenge them. And I'll say, let me see your screening criteria. And it's usually so vague that there are multiple different, like sets of people within that. So I usually make a promise to you guys that if your screening criteria is too vast and you're interviewing like people who should be put in completely different little sets.
Lilliana Robinson: You're gonna see no patterns. It's going to seem random. Nothing's gonna emerge. You need those people to be extremely alike
Lilliana Robinson: to be able to see like the small nuances within them, and then derive a job statement from that. So it's really important.
Lilliana Robinson: So a lot of you are thinking about many different verticals. I think at least 3 companies on the call. I think they need to be completely separate, so that you can actually see the patterns within, like each kind of set of people's personal scenarios with that company.
Annie Brown: Okay. Great.
Lilliana Robinson: Does that make sense, Annie? I'm really glad you asked.
Annie Brown: Yeah, that that's gonna help streamline it for sure.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah. And then, Neil, what were you saying about amount of jobs at the end? You're talking about final jobs that you come out with.
Lilliana Robinson: So Neil was saying, some people will end up with one. Some people will end up with 2 or 3. This is per set.
Lilliana Robinson: So like, if you're doing 3 different verticals. We're just gonna focus on the 1st set you're doing like for Agent Lunar. They're thinking about many different verticals. I think they decided to start with Etsy Sellers. So for the Etsy Sellers, they'll decide that the Etsys sellers have 2 to 3 different job statements or reasons that they want to make progress.
Lilliana Robinson: and then they'll be able to design for that. And then another set will have a completely different set of drop statements, and then it's up to you who you want to target first.st That's when we get into the fun. And we decide on product ramifications and prototyping and implications like that
Lilliana Robinson: that was on meal. You can.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Awesome. We're about to get into questions because I'm I'm at the tail end of what we're covering today. But just to kind of bring it home. Once you have the job statements which I know is going to take some time to get to it's gonna create a North Star for you.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and it's gonna be a super helpful resource. And I think it'll give you a lot of alignment with your team and with potential investors about what it is you're here to do
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and remember, as people join your team, they're not going to know which office to be done means. And, by the way.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: this is also important. I've been preaching about jobs to be done for the past 2 days.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I don't recommend
Neal Sáles-Griffin: sharing it outside of this group or our circle.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So has anyone ever seen the movie Fight club.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you know? Fight club? No, not too old. Yes. What's the 1st rule of fight? Club folks.
Dave Scott: You don't talk about 5 clubs.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Don't talk about Fight Club. That's jobs to be done. So it's like we don't have to talk about it like I I did. Investors don't care, they using jobs to be done like no one cares but us.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So who cares like? It's just customer discovery. It's just research.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: It can be your secret sauce, for all that matters. What matters is is I'm demonstrating that I understand more about the people that I'm serving as customers than anyone else in the market.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I know things that other people don't. I have secrets to share with you. So just know that, like there's no tattoo to get to represent your knowledge of this. It's more just a tool for you to. I don't care if you come up with a new name for it for your company. It's more about just you knowing how to do this than it is like us, giving you the exact explicit way to say that you understand
Lilliana Robinson: Cool.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Something. Oh, you want to add something.
Lilliana Robinson: I was just gonna say, sometimes Neil calls it the force, like in Star Wars. So it's just kind of like a tool in your tool belt. A lot of people are going to get to mentor madness, or like investor calls that they're going to say like, Oh, we did jobs to be done this time, or we've done 10 jobs to be done. Interviews. Half of the people
Lilliana Robinson: will have no idea what you're talking about, and the other half. It's it's not as like impressive as it sounds. What's impressive are your insights and your deep knowledge of your customer. So it's demonstrating how well you understand the customer and the decisions you've made to serve them based on those insights. So like for us, it's a huge deal for you to do all of these assignments and exercises, but Neil's like putting it into perspective for you, so that you understand how the outside world will understand and and value it.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I mean, honestly, it. It's actually sometimes a red flag when someone claims that they know jobs to be done
Neal Sáles-Griffin: like, I'm a professor at at the business school, you know, at Northwestern, and when I hear people say, Oh, yeah. Well, I know jobs to be done, and then I hear them, I'm like, tell me, what do you think it means? And I'm like, Oh, oops like they don't really get it so. If if anything just like, keep it to yourself and do your thing with it. And don't dwell on bragging about how well you know it.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: okay. So
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Ingrainian company culture. I've talked about that. We're going to help you all make a document so that when you have new employees or new team members that join they'll be able to very quickly spin up and understand what the jobs are at the company. So they know who they're helping with you with all the work that you've done?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And then, lastly, this leads into product strategy. So you get to go back to the drawing board to go. Okay, well, what have we learned here just like we did with the Mcdonald's 1 yesterday?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Now that we understand the job, what do we need to do
Neal Sáles-Griffin: with our product or service to better address it and to answer it. So there's this activity called opportunity map mapping. I'm sure some of you are familiar with. That you can do so you can focus on those forces and I, and through those forces you can imagine ways to either remove or add or refine certain features within your product.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: There's the opportunity solution tree, which is outlined really well in the book which we'll refer to as well. But that helps you kind of understand and map out the sub problems and opportunities and then leading into actual features and implementations and ideas that you might have for prototypes.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and then also.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you tend to get really excited about one idea, like I know, after some founders, they'll tell me. Oh, I did this job to be done interview. And it's very clear that this is the problem that they have. So we we took an all nighter and we built this feature, and we implemented into the product. And now everyone gets it.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And I'm like, what a mistake! Please don't do that. Do not jump the gun and over, build or over engineer, just because you had one great moment of an idea from one. Conversation
Neal Sáles-Griffin: is a is a very common thing for founders to do. And you just gotta have to be patient and trust our process so that you know that you're making the right move and not just kind of shooting from the hip
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And also it doesn't stop here. So it's really important that you all realize that this is a process that we're giving to you to ingrain into your organization, not as a 1, and done like I did tech stars. I did jobs to be done, and now I know my customer, and I'll never have to do it again.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: As you get more customers, you need to continuously conduct interviews, and as you conduct interviews, you gain more insights, and your organization evolves over time.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So the ones who are doing the best right now, the ones who've raised money, the ones who are profitable, the ones who are on track to provide not only a return on their investment, but the founders themselves are on a path to having.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you know, a lot of success.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Are the ones that have a very clear
Neal Sáles-Griffin: ingrained methodology for continuously talking to their customers throughout the life cycle of their business. They do it on a monthly, sometimes quarterly, sometimes even weekly basis. They have team members or themselves that are actively talking to customers and understanding why they're buying.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: There's also other product prioritization frameworks that you all may have heard of from my, you know.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: technical and business nerds out there, rice, Kano model Moscow. There's a lot of ones out there that are really cool, that
Neal Sáles-Griffin: can build on top of jobs as a foundation.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That'll help you with scale.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Product metrics become more meaningful. Now you're tying it back to the jobs like our our metrics. And are we? Are we defining success and setting our goals in a way that allow us to measure the progress, now that we understand what it looks like. More, there's this notion of a magic moment.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Some of you may have heard of this, but there's a time where.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: when the certain criteria is met with the customer.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you have them in a way that disproportionately alters their commitment and their lifetime value to you and your business.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: for example, Facebook figured out early on what their magic moment was.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Does anyone know what Facebook's magic moment was
Neal Sáles-Griffin: for a user when you signed up.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Anyone want to guess before I tell you.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: Your Facebook, account.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Stage! Oh, sorry go ahead!
Dave Scott: Yeah. Yeah. The magic moment's pretty cool. Concept. I think it was the 1st post right.
Dave Scott: Was there magic.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Friends.
Dave Scott: 20. Friends, okay?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Once they had 20 friends on the platform. That's like when they had you.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: They like. Then then you're in like they you once they get over 20 friends in the platform
Neal Sáles-Griffin: game over now, we're.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you know, liking each other's posts where back in the day they had this feature called poke you're posting birthdays like it was all types of fun stuff on there. But each of you, you're gonna have this thing where, when your customer crosses a certain behavior threshold, they're much more likely to engage with you. Be your die hard customers, and not only retain, but maybe even convert other people and recommend and refer folks to the platform. And be, you know, basically your
Neal Sáles-Griffin: your organic salesforce.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Cool.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: communicating. Gtb, 3 slides left so a really good exercise here for those of you that want to test it out is once you've gotten your jobs to be done insights, and I'll have you all do this when you present your jobs in a few weeks
Neal Sáles-Griffin: we're going to pull up your landing pages. We're going to pull up your home pages.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and we're going to ask ourselves, are we saying
Neal Sáles-Griffin: the right thing on the homepage relative to what you're saying? The jobs are
Neal Sáles-Griffin: cause I'll bet probably a lot of you if I go to your homepage right now.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: A lot of you are just describing what you do and how awesome you are.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and how great your product or business is, and your features, and what you offer, and how fast you offer it, and how well you do with it.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: rather than talking about the people you're here to help, and what they need, and how much better their life is going to be.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So I know that's true, because it's always true. And but we're going to help you with that.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and then we'll help you rewrite your one liners. We'll try to summarize things and have very like succinct ways for you to describe your business and those case studies.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: 2 other exercises here. I don't think this is important. Now I can go back to it.
Lilliana Robinson: I was telling them in the chat that all of the prototyping and product tools that we just ran through really quickly in the last, like 10 min are outlined in the book.
Lilliana Robinson: So, Neil, can I talk about the book really quick? So.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Sure. Please. Yeah.
Lilliana Robinson: You are going to receive an assignment today or tomorrow on your to do list. It is to download or buy.
Lilliana Robinson: but demand side sales 101 by Bob Mesta. So this is going to be required reading
Lilliana Robinson: by day. One I read in like 2 days. It should be a pretty quick read. One note is that Bob puts a lot of like diagrams in there. So if you do an audio book, you're gonna want to make sure. You also buy the kindle version with it, because he's going to be talking through illustrations that like you're gonna want to see. So like, I love audio books. But this is definitely something you're gonna need to follow along and see the pictures. Because he's very engineer minded. And there are a lot of like
Lilliana Robinson: different sort of diagrams to help. You understand systems and such demand side sales. 101 by Bob Messip, we're going to want you guys to read that by day one, it's going to really solidify a lot of the concepts that we have talked about these past 3 days, and for a lot of you you're going to see the connection with everything we're talking about to directly making profit and like getting those sales and putting money in your bank, and so it'll help a lot of you click.
Lilliana Robinson: A lot of you were also thinking of it from a very data perspective. Bob also has that kind of perspective from his engineering background. So I think it'll help. But it's also an easy read, if that's not your jam as well, so I would love for you all to try to download that, Chloe was saying. Some of our international founders here might not be able to access it on the kindle store. So if that's the case, reach out to me directly. But I'm giving you guys that heads up so you can start reading it over the long weekend, if you're interested. And then on day one, we will
Lilliana Robinson: have a little discussion to see how it went.
Lilliana Robinson: Anything else. So.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I don't know. International founders get creative use a VPN figure it out.
Lilliana Robinson: That's what I was thinking.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And I have anything. Now we're questions right?
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: This, is it? We we got done early.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: so you all take your time back, or let's hang out and talk about what we just blazed through.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, over the next, you guys are going to be writing your screening criteria. So this was our lecture on screening criteria as well as how to do the interview. So I'd love to hear any questions you guys have have about either of those, because next week you're going to start taking a stab at like deriving your own screening criteria statements and submitting them by the end of next week.
Lilliana Robinson: and then you'll start scheduling your own interviews after they're approved by Neil.
Lilliana Robinson: Also be prepared to go back to the drawing board a couple of times. I would say more than half. We have rewrite one or 2 times to make it more and more specific. You can cut that step by looking at it yourself before you submit it, and then rewriting it, and making it 2 times as narrow as what you were about to submit.
Lilliana Robinson: I challenge you to do that.
Florence Ettlin: So. I had a question about once you identified who you're going to reach out. Or maybe you got a referral do you have any tips on what wording to use when you basically tell them what you're planning to do or what you'd like to do. Via Linkedin by email, whatever mode you're using.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I think what we can do is maybe give you. Let's let's let's commit to getting a few examples
Neal Sáles-Griffin: of introductory messages from some of the founders.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: We've done it more recently. But
Neal Sáles-Griffin: in in to save you time
Neal Sáles-Griffin: there's no
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I would just put yourself into their shoes
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and frame it in a way that you think would be most palatable, and we'll do some work on our end to try to come up with a few examples of copy and language, but don't overthink it, keep it simple and straightforward and honest, and it'll be fine.
Florence Ettlin: Okay.
Lilliana Robinson: I would say there are 2 different ways to do it. One is the way I like to do it, where you're putting out an ask so that people are coming to you. So you're like I'm looking for, you know, people who were in the airport in the past 90 days and bought and relate to a flight, and bought a snickers on the way to their to their gate.
Lilliana Robinson: and then, like people, will like comment, be like, oh, I did that. I did that. I'd love to be interviewed. And same with B. Twob, this works the same way. If you're doing a direct reach out as a DM. I'd say, like, come from a kind of student perspective where it's like you're just looking to learn more. Make sure you don't come off salesy at all. You're just asking for 15 to 20 min, not 15, probably 20 to 25 min of their time
Lilliana Robinson: to like quickly chat because you want to learn more because you're you're working on a project in X space. And you, think that they would fit your criteria and remember to ask. We're finding questions. If you're directly reaching out to make sure they meet your screening criteria.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah.
Lilliana Robinson: I have. I have an example that I have put in your base camp projects already.
Lilliana Robinson: No, this is bloom filters, screening criteria. If you want to just kind of
Lilliana Robinson: talk through how this is a good example.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Looking at it.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: This is an okay example.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: They're they're they're kind of boiling the ocean a bit with all 3 different like buckets. So when you read it, you're like
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you have to fit into, you know, 3 very broad categories. It's still they they did a good job. So I know, this ended up
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and what they wanted. But still I would refine this even more.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So hired agile consultants or software auditors adopted a new digital software project management tool or recently organized in order to gain more insight into their operations. That's a lot.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: It's biting off a little bit more than I think I would be interested in chewing.
Lilliana Robinson: Okay, I'll look for another example on this call. I will call out a couple of key things for your screening criteria. You usually want them to have purchased 1st of all, you want to center it around a switch moment.
Lilliana Robinson: So I don't think we said that before. But a switch moment is either you're hiring or you're firing. So for those who are pre customers, and you don't have any customers of your own who have paid you, you're going to do competitors who either hired a competitor or fired a competitor. Remember, competitor can be direct or indirect. So that's an option. And then for your current customers
Lilliana Robinson: people who have fired you. I remember Dave said he was very interested in that. We hired you and fired you, or they just hired you. And so all of those things are extremely good switch points. You want to anchor the entire conversation around that switch point just like the mattress interview. It was all about that purchase that he made. It wasn't just like people who are looking for a mattress, or had this struggle. And you're talking about the struggle you're talking about how that struggle ended up in this switch. Moment.
Lilliana Robinson: Another thing is recency that's really important. You saw bloom filter. There had one to 2 years. I do agree with Neil. It's not a perfect example, because I would not have gone back that much. People don't remember the specifics of where they were sitting when they purchased something 2 years ago.
Lilliana Robinson: So, Max, I would say 6 months for some b 2 b people. You might have to expand there for anyone that can do it. 90 days is the sweet spot.
Lilliana Robinson: 90 days is where it's the most fresh. You want that switch moment to be in the last 90 days. I I would say you can go up to 6 months if it's like a very, very major thing, maybe a year, but that is going to be stretching people's memory. So that's what you want to look at. So you want to do this switch moment, hiring or firing, and then you want to be very narrow about the situation that the person was under when they made that moment. And that's how you're going to craft your screening criteria.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Alright have we worn worn you all out yet
Neal Sáles-Griffin: our brains full.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: It seems like it.
Lilliana Robinson: I was just gonna say everything I just said is listed in your to do so in your to do this is noetic. You go to your pre program, prep to do list, submit your screening criteria assignment, and then I have all of these things of what I just said, so you choose a group hired, fired
Lilliana Robinson: mix of people. I give some specific examples for B, 2 B,
Lilliana Robinson: so make sure you read all of this. These are your instructions. They're pretty comprehensive.
Lilliana Robinson: all right. Well, we'll stay on for individual questions in case you guys have any. Again. I'm sure your brains are like flooded. So make sure that you just take some time. Go on a walk or something today to marinate on all of this and really let it digest. I'd love to hear again tomorrow any sort of thoughts or questions you guys have after you have some time to think about this. But tomorrow's really fun, because we're going to demonstrate. Live what it's like to do a job speed on interview.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah, we'll do it in real time. And my slides. For the 3rd phase of this I have like
Neal Sáles-Griffin: pictures.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: so they'll be more entertaining. It's not just plain black and white text anymore. We're we're we made it through it.
Lilliana Robinson: Awesome. You guys were awesome. Thanks for all your participation. We'll talk to you guys tomorrow. Don't forget that this afternoon. Chloe is hosting office hours for any and everything you need help with. So you can ask her about any of the current assignments. Base camp to do's anything that's going on. Any help you need or questions you have. She will be there for 2 h to just answer any onboarding questions. No questions off the table. So anything you need help with, please attend and we'll see you guys tomorrow morning.